---
published: "2026-03-31"
link: "https://eprint.iacr.org/2026/629"
authors: ["[[Haruhisa Kosuge]]", "[[Keita Xagawa]]"]
tags: ["cryptography", "paper"]
---

# Abstract

> Recent MPC-in-the-Head (MPCitH) signatures increasingly rely on aggressive GGM-tree optimizations to reduce signature size and cost, culminating in _secret-key-root correlated_ GGM tree as used in MQOM (NIST PQC Standardization for Additional Signature Round-2, 2024). While this technique yields substantial compression, it introduces a dependency loop in the proof. The transcript we would like to randomize for simulation is generated by expanding a GGM tree from a root that is part of the secret key, so this randomization must be justified via a reduction to the hardness of recovering the secret key. However, the hiding of the secret key relies on masking randomness that is a part of the transcript derived from the same GGM tree. As a result, justifying the randomization requires hiding, while proving hiding requires the randomization, and standard MPCitH proof templates do not apply directly.
> 
> We propose and analyze two variants of MQOM and provide the EUF-CMA security proofs. The first variant makes a minor change to salts and replaces blockcipher-based hash functions in the GGM trees with random functions; we then prove its EUF-CMA security in the (quantum) random oracle model under partial-domain one-wayness or slightly stronger one-wayness assumptions. The second variant also makes a minor change to salts and adjusts security parameters to admit a proof under standard one-wayness in the ideal-cipher and random-oracle models. The proof exploits the H-coefficient technique with one-wayness, which might be of independent interest.
